At the time of recording,
the main page for DynamoDB had the following description: Amazon
DynamoDB is a key‑value and document database that delivers
single‑digit millisecond performance at any scale.
It's a fully managed, multiregion, multimaster,
durable database with built‑in security,
backup and restore, and in‑memory caching for internet‑scale applications.
So what exactly does all of that mean?
Let's break it down because there's a lot packed into those two sentences.
First off, DynamoDB is a NoSQL database service.
It is not a relational database.
Let me say that again.
This gives you more flexibility in how you structure your data.
You can set up a table with different attributes or columns, add items, rows,
then later on add additional attributes to new items without
having to redefine the table schema and migrate the data.
DynamoDB is a key‑value database, meaning you have a unique key,
for example user ID, and some value associated with
that key, attributes like name, address, and employer.
Different items may have different attributes,
but they can all be stored in the same table.
DynamoDB is also a document database, meaning you can store HTML,
XML or JSON documents as items in tables and then read
attributes from those documents.
DynamoDB delivers single‑digit millisecond performance at any scale.
Some databases start to slow down as table size or query volume increases.
Dynamo is designed to maintain consistent performance no matter how large your
table becomes or how many queries are issued per second.
DynamoDB operates on a massive scale, handling over
10 trillion requests per day,
peeking up to 20 million requests per second over petabytes of data.
Dynamo is fully managed,
meaning the underlying hardware, provisioning, patching, and
networking is taken care of for you. If you need to run in
multiple AWS regions, that's supported natively.
This helps distribute your traffic to geographic locations closer to your users,
as well as mitigate the effects of a regional failure.
It has multiple masters, meaning no single point of failure for your cluster,
and active data is stored in multiple locations,
preventing data loss from underlying hardware failure.
Dynamo also has built‑in backup and restore. Continuous backups don't affect
the performance or availability of your running database,
and you can enable point‑in‑time recovery to restore your database
to any given second in the proceeding 35 days.
Security is also built in with default encryption at rest
and the ability to use IAM to restrict user access to only
their records within a table.
Finally, in‑memory caching is also a native feature with DynamoDB Accelerator,
which is a fully managed in‑memory cache that can improve read
performance by up to 10 times. To sum up Amazon DynamoDB from the
initial long quote on the product page,
it's a NoSQL database service that supports both key‑value and document storage.
All of the features you need for a database are built in and managed,
including multiregion availability,
continuous backup and restore, data security and durability,
and a caching solution to improve read times.
One of the biggest takeaways from Dynamo is its ability to maintain high performance with both large tables and large volumes of queries.